README.md, before:

# Venue Events app

Simple events agenda app for a DIY music venue. Mostly as a means to learn Svelte, SvelteKit and TypeScript, but maybe it'll end up being used at some place, sometime.

# sv

Everything you need to build a Svelte project, powered by [`sv`](https://github.com/sveltejs/cli).

## Creating a project

If you're seeing this, you've probably already done this step. Congrats!

```bash
# create a new project in the current directory
npx sv create

# create a new project in my-app
npx sv create my-app
```

## Developing

Once you've created a project and installed dependencies with `npm install` (or `pnpm install` or `yarn`), start a development server:

```bash
npm run dev

# or start the server and open the app in a new browser tab
npm run dev -- --open
```

## Building

To create a production version of your app:

```bash
npm run build
```

You can preview the production build with `npm run preview`.

> To deploy your app, you may need to install an [adapter](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/adapters) for your target environment.

Commit message:

Add local development instructions to README

README.md, after:

# Vilnius Hardcore

An events agenda app for a DIY music venue, built with [SvelteKit](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/introduction).

## Local development

### Database setup
A Postgres database server needs to be running (locally or remotely) so that the website can fetch/store data. 

It can be set up using a Docker container or a manual Postgres installation.

#### Using Docker
1. Create a `docker-compose.yml` file with desired database credentials (see `docker-compose.yml.example`).
1. Run the database container:
```bash
npm run db:start
```

> [!NOTE]
> If you are using an existing Postgres server installation, execute all statements from `init.sql` before proceeding.

Once the database is running:
1. Create a `.env` file containing database connection string (see `.env.example`).
1. Build the database schema. Agree to execute all statements when asked.
```bash
npm run db:init
```

Any changes made to the schema during development can be synced by running:
```bash
npm run db:push
```

### Running a development server
Once you've cloned the repository, set up the database and installed dependencies with `npm install`, start a development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

## Deploying

See [install instructions](https://github.com/execut4ble/vilnius-hardcore/wiki/Installation)
